# Inversion of induced polarization parameters in time-domain electromagnetic data using the Debye Decomposition model 

**Masayuki Motoori¹², Lindsey J. Heagy¹, Gosuke Hoshino², Kunpei Nagase², Takumi Sato²**  
¹ University of British Columbia Geophysical Inversion Facility  
² Japan Organization for Metals and Energy Security (JOGMEC)

### Abstract
Time-domain electromagnetics (TEM) is sensitive to the variance of resistivity and changeability, which are diagnostic parameters for seafloor hydrothermal deposits. Several surveys using the Waseda Integrated Seafloor Time-domain Electromagnetic exploration system (WISTEM) have been conducted, and the system has proven to be effective. Negative transients, which are due to induced polarization (IP) effects, have been observed for data collected over known deposits. The Cole-Cole type model is the most common mathematical model to explain complex resistivity due to the IP effect. The model assumes a wide frequency band, which is not necessarily covered by TEM. Using the Cole-Cole type model for TEM inversion suffers from significant inconsistency. We assume it is attributable to the discrepancy of the frequency band between the data and the model. The Debye Decomposition model can match this gap by estimating a relaxation time constant band, where chargeability behaves differently from resistivity. We demonstrate that the Debye Decomposition model estimates a consistent model with the ground truth model reconciled based on the frequency band corresponding to the relaxation time constant band. We also demonstrate field data applications where the data has negative transient, acquired using WISTEM in Okinawa Trough in Japan, 2018.
